Optional Language Detect (#932)
scrapinghub/dateparser: docs/custom_detect_languages_func.rst

============
Custom language detection

> ============

Reviewer: I think we could have it in this order:

1. section explaining the `detect_languages_func` parameter 
2. section explaining fasttext and langdetect integrations
3. section explaining how to create your own language detection functions.

Author: Hi, I have made the changes

Usage
=====
:func:`dateparser.parse` supports two language detection
libraries `fasttext <https://github.com/facebookresearch/fastText>`_ 
and `langdetect <https://github.com/Mimino666/langdetect>`_.

fastText
~~~~~~~~
A language detection with fastText.

Import fasttext wrapper and pass it as ``detect_languages_func``
parameter with::

    >>> from dateparser.custom_lang_detect.fasttext import detect_languages
    >>> dateparser.parse('12/12/12', detect_languages_func=detect_languages)

fastText supports currently supports fastText - large and small model you can
download your model of choice using 

`Read more <https://fasttext.cc/blog/2017/10/02/blog-post.html>`_ about models.

langdetect
~~~~~~~~
A language detection with langdetect.

Import langdetect wrapper and pass it as ``detect_languages_func``
parameter with::

    >>> from dateparser.custom_lang_detect.langdetect import detect_languages
    >>> dateparser.parse('12/12/12', detect_languages_func=detect_languages)

.. note::

    ``fastText`` is the fastest if faster,  more 
    accurate and supports more languages.

Custom implementation
=====================

> dateparser allow integration of any library

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dateparser allows integration of any library
```

> you can impliment any language detection library by wrap it with a 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you can implement any language detection library by wrap it with a 
```

> function accepting ``text`` and ``confidence_threshold`` and returns

Reviewer: ```suggestion
function accepting ``text`` and ``confidence_threshold`` and returning
```

list of detected language codes.

Wrapper for boilerplate for implimenting custom language detections::

    def detect_languages(text, confidence_threshold):
        language_codes = []
        parser_data = languages_dectetion_function(text)

>         for langauge_candidate in parser_data:
>             if langauge_candidate > confidence_threshold:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        for language_candidate in parser_data:
            if language_candidate > confidence_threshold:
```

>     def detect_languages(text, confidence_threshold):
>         language_codes = []
>         parser_data = languages_dectetion_function(text)
>         for language_candidate in parser_data:
>             if language_candidate > confidence_threshold:
>                 language_codes.append(language_code)
>         return language_codes

Reviewer: I would suggest changing this to a description.

```suggestion
    def detect_languages(text, confidence_threshold):
        """
        Takes two variables: `text` and `confidence_treshold` and returns
        a list of `languages codes`.
        
        * `text` is a string containing from where the language codes are 
        derived.
        
        * `confidence_treshold` is a number between 0 and 1 that can be 
        used to decide if the confidence is enough. It can be also ignored.
        This value comes from the dateparser setting: 
        `LANGUAGE_DETECTION_CONFIDENCE_THRESHOLD`
        
        The result must be a list of languages codes (strings).
        """
        # here you can apply your own logic
        return language_codes
```

cc: @lopuhin

Reviewer 2: Sounds good to me, thanks @noviluni

.. note::

>     ``confidence_threshold`` is the float that can be used to
>     filter the results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ``confidence_threshold`` is a float between 0 and 1 that can be used to filter the results. It comes from the ``LANGUAGE_DETECTION_CONFIDENCE_THRESHOLD`` setting.
```

============
Custom language detection
============

> ``dateparser`` supports integration of custom language detection. 
>  
> ``dateparser.parse`` and ``dateparser.search.search_dates`` out of the box
> supports two language detection libraries 
> `fasttext <https://github.com/facebookresearch/fastText>`_ 
> and `langdetect <https://github.com/Mimino666/langdetect>`_.
> 
> You can impliment your own custom language detection by using the 
> boilerplate code below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`dateparser` allows to customize the language detection behavior. It currently supports two
 language detection libraries out of the box: `fasttext <https://github.com/facebookresearch/fastText>`_ 
and `langdetect <https://github.com/Mimino666/langdetect>`_, and allows you to implement your own custom language detection.

```

> Usage
> =====

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Usage of fastText and langdetect
================================
```

fastText
~~~~~~~~
Language detection with fastText.

Import fasttext wrapper and pass it as ``detect_languages_function``

> parameter with::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
parameter. Example::
```

    >>> from dateparser.custom_language_detection.fasttext import detect_languages
    >>> dateparser.parse('12/12/12', detect_languages_function=detect_languages)

> fastText supports currently supports fastText - large and small model you can
> download your model of choice using ``dateparser-download``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the fastText integration currently supports the large and the small models. You can
download your model of choice using ``dateparser-download``.
```

Downloading small model::

    >>> dateparser-download fasttext small

Downloading large model::

    >>> dateparser-download fasttext large

Deleting all cached models::

    >>> dateparser-download clear_cache

.. note::

>     ``fastText`` used ``small`` as default so it will download and use if no model

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ``fastText`` uses ``small`` as default so it will download and use if no model
```

    is already cached.

langdetect
~~~~~~~~
Language detection with langdetect.

> Import langdetect wrapper and pass it as ``detect_languages_function``
> parameter with::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Import langdetect wrapper and pass it as ``detect_languages_function``
parameter. Example::
```

    >>> from dateparser.custom_language_detection.langdetect import detect_languages
    >>> dateparser.parse('12/12/12', detect_languages_function=detect_languages)

.. note::

>     ``fastText`` is the fastest if faster,  more 
>     accurate and supports more languages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    From some tests we did, we recommend to use ``fastText`` for faster and more accurate results.
```

Custom implementation
=====================

> ``dateparser`` allows the integration of any library
> you can implement any language detection library by wrapping it with a 
> function accepting ``text`` and ``confidence_threshold`` and returning
> list of detected language codes in ISO 639 standards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``dateparser`` allows the integration of any library to detect the languages
by wrapping them in a function that accepts ``text`` and ``confidence_threshold`` 
and returns a list of the detected language codes in ISO 639 standards.
```
